---
title: Week 27: E.T.
slug: week-27-et
date: 2026-05-19 08:56
status: published
tags: [weeknotes]
description: 
---

A two-weeks long week in the homestead.

- 🌱 This year I decided to not worry about vegetables and starting seeds in the garden; instead I was going to plant some hardy flowers and that's it. But basil is one thing that grows really well here and is so easy to care for (arugula too). We currently only have one tiny plant we overwintered indoors, so on May 4th I direct sowed some seeds of two varieties. The giant basil sprouted in about 5 days and the dwarf Marseille basil took a little bit longer, maybe 8-10 days, but as of today, I have a ton of cotyledons showing! Will post some photos of their progress later this week.
- 🌺 Found small vases of beautiful flowers on sale for only 1,99€ due to Spanish mother's day. We picked up four of those vases, all in different shades of pink, and they are really happy in the garden.
- 🍱 Back in Easter, we received friends for a few days and got to know all about their trip to Japan and Korea, the beauty, the people, **the food**. Since then my youtube algorithm is bombarding me with Japanese and Korean breakfast, snacks, rice, soup, tofu. I usually eat the Mediterranean diet (and have never been bombarded by videos of cucumber and feta cheese), but I gave in and started following some of those recipes and it is so delicious. I've been having miso soup with a rice bowl almost everyday! Addicted!
- 🐶 Took Luna to the vet for vaccines and to check out her bad breath and turns out we need to extract her top canine! Poor dog!
- 📺Finished watching [Person of Interest](https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/1411-person-of-interest). I really liked it and wrote a little bit about it [here](/watched-person-of-interest). My only complaint is the format, it is one of those with 20+ episodes per season, "monster of the week" style. But the storyline is cool!
- 💸 Did an in-depth trading review of my excel trading journal, and discovered with all certainty that the only roadblock on the path to profitability is myself. For the past 1.5 years, I've been risking on average 14 ticks to make 9 ticks, but 93% of all my trades (including winners and losers) goes to 1R and 79% goes all the way to 2R or more.
- 🍿 Watched [E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial](https://www.themoviedb.org/movie/601-e-t-the-extra-terrestrial)! I had only seen it once as a child, and my husband had never seen it. He thought it was going to be too childish and strongly refused it (as if we were very serious adults, lol). I don't know why this resistance, he does like Stranger Things and Goonies and all of Star Wars. So I put my foot down and decided Saturday night was going to be our E.T. night and guess what? The movie is adorable, the photography is so good, and the way they chose to film the adults is so cool. We both loved it, he loved it!
- 🧵 Sewed cotton-case protectors for our outdoor cushions, so it's easier to take the covers out to wash. A very useful task, really easy and quick to do, and I got to use some old scraps of fabric.
